---
feature_story: FS_52_56_22_00
feature_title: line section
feature_status: TBD
---

TODO: Clarify, add examples, provide details.

TODO: While it is clear how sections are separated whey user incrementally appends-only new arg values to
      the end of the command line (selecting to search next and next `data_envelope`),
      it is not clear what to do if user goes back and modifies some prev arg values -
      this affects the remaining command line.
      For example, if user goes and specifies directly `envelope_id` of `data_envelope` as the first arg,
      these will make several subsequent args not need, the first `line_section` will shrink to the single
      arg value (specifying `envelope_id`), now unused arg values will be cannibalized by next `line_section`
      changing completely the outcome of the interpretation.
      TODO: consider explicit line sections separated by comma `,`.
      TODO: Actually, maybe ignore such use-cases altogether? User simply have to remove conflicting args.

TODO: Should we consider only groups of adjacent args to participate in search query for the same `data_envelope`?
      For example,
      with `downstream` in adjacent group `2`,
      `ServiceEnvelopeClass.ClassCluster` is identified and `ro` is for the next group `3`:
      ```
      some_command    goto host    qa prod downstream ro
      # groups:  0       1    1     2    2          2  3
      ```
      with `ro` going first (before `downstream`),
      `ServiceEnvelopeClass.ClassCluster` is not identified and `ro` can only be arg for that class and not the other:
      ```
      some_command    goto host    qa prod ro downstream
      # groups:  0       1    1     2    2  2          2
      ```

`line_section` is simply part of command line
(the full name has to be "command line section" but it was shortened for brevity).

What is important about `line_section`?
It separates set of args for `args_context` consumption.

Each `line_section` have new `args_context`.
Yes, `context_control` allows transferring some arg type = arg value entries
from prev `args_context` to next `args_context`, but they are separate objects.

There is no pre-defined upfront `line_section`-s.
They are created dynamically during `command_line` interpretation.
