---
feature_story: FS_28_84_41_40
feature_title: flexible bootstrap
feature_status: TODO
---

## Background

This feature is a combination of several ideas:

*   TODO: TODO_96_01_13_29: multiple bootstrap stages to instantiate configs.

*   TODO: [TODO_11_66_62_70.python_bootstrap.md][TODO_11_66_62_70.python_bootstrap.md]: Using Python lang as a bootstrap process entry point.

*   Using (mostly) template FS_69_15_45_21 template instantiator.

    This is instead of making copies or symlinks of files from deployed packages.

There is an existing FS_85_33_46_53 process to `bootstrap_env` which will likely be replaced (obsoleted) by this feature.

## Things to address

*   TODO: [TODO_11_66_62_70.python_bootstrap.md][TODO_11_66_62_70.python_bootstrap.md]: The Python bootstrap should switch automatically into mode: interpreter already known, interpreter not known yet.

*   TODO: There should be some conventions where to put and how to name generated files.

    Maybe they should be under `gen` dir by their origin, not across multiple dirs by their function.
    They can be referenced from the dir by function using a proxy wrapper (if we talk about scripts).

## Bootstrap stages

Each bootstrap stage can be overridden by custom scripts, but there is a default implemented by `argrelay` -
see [TODO_11_66_62_70.python_bootstrap.md][TODO_11_66_62_70.python_bootstrap.md].

The stages are chained (prev stages starts next stage) -
it is expected that naming of the scripts does not match naming of the stages
(some scripts may implement multiple stages).

*   `find_conf`

*   `init_venv`

    Responsibilities:
    *   Initialize Python (virtual) environment `@/venv/` (without installing any packages yet).
    *   Runs next stage in activated `@/venv/` (e.g. `@/venv/bin/python some_script.py`).

    Constraints:
    *   Cannot use any non-standard Python packages (as `venv` may not yet exist).
    *   Should be run-able on the earliest supported Python version (preferably, even earlier to run in outdated envs).
    *   Do not modify any files (creating new ones is okay) until `generate_files` stage.

    Guidelines:
    *   Create a (versionable) env-specific state file if it does not exist.
    *   Use the presence of the state file to re-use the initialized environment.
    *   Use the absence of the state file to re-initialize the environment.

*   `install_deps`

    Responsibilities:
    *   Deploy all Python (or non-Python) dependencies.

    Constraints:
    *   Cannot use any non-standard Python packages (as `venv` may still be empty).
    *   Do not modify any files (creating new ones is okay) until `generate_files` stage.

    Guidelines:
    *   Use quick check to avoid re-installing dependencies.

*   `generate_files`

    Guidelines:
    *   Ensure the repo has no local modifications before doing anything (to avoid mixing generated and manual changes).
    *   Generate files (by any means possible).
    *   If there are changes, it is better to re-run everything from `init_venv` stage recursively.

---

[TODO_11_66_62_70.python_bootstrap.md]: ../task_refs/TODO_11_66_62_70.python_bootstrap.md
